keycloak production like deployment to kubernetes (#1366)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2023-01-23-keycloak-kubernetes-prod.md

---
layout: blog_post

> title: "OAuth2 microservices with Keycloak on Google Kubernetes Engine"

Reviewer: I just copied the keywords for this post into the PR as a comment. We're trying to capture `spring boot kubernetes` as keywords, but I realize that might be tough. Here's some suggestions for titles with their scores:

- Keycloak and Spring Boot in Production: 58
- Build a Spring Boot App with Keycloak and Kubernetes: 57
- Keycloak in Production with Kubernetes: 56
- Keycloak in Production with Spring Boot and JHipster: 61

We should also try to use these keywords in the first few headings for SEO.

Author: Added the keywords in the title and headings.

Author: Please approve the updated headings.

author:
by: contractor
communities: [devops,security,java]

> description: "A walk-through of building a microservices architecture with JHipster, Keycloak for OAuth2, and Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) deployment. Keycloak as identity broker with Auth0 as the identity provider."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "A walk-through of building a microservices architecture with JHipster, Keycloak for OAuth 2.0, and Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) deployment."
```

Descriptions should be around 160 characters for SEO. https://moz.com/learn/seo/meta-description

tags: [keycloak, kubernetes, java, jhipster, security, oauth2]
tweets:
- ""
- ""
- ""
image:
type: awareness
---

> Keycloak is an open-source identity and access management solution that allows you to secure your applications and services with ease. JHipster, on the other hand, is a powerful development platform that provides developers with the tools they need to create modern, scalable, and robust web applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keycloak is an open-source identity and access management solution that allows you to secure your applications and services with ease. JHipster, on the other hand, is a powerful development platform that provides developers with the tools they need to create modern, scalable, and robust web applications using Spring Boot.
```

Keycloak is the default OpenID Connect server configured with JHipster. Using Keycloak with JHipster is an excellent way to ensure that your web applications are secure and well-protected from unauthorized access. By integrating Keycloak with JHipster, you can easily implement authentication and authorization in your application, manage user identities, and provide secure access to resources.

The JHipster Kubernetes generator creates all the necessary Kubernetes resources, such as deployments, services, and ingresses, based on the configuration of the JHipster application. This includes setting up the database, configuring security, and setting up any necessary environment variables. Since JHipster 8, the Kubernetes sub-generator supports Keycloak for Ingress GKE deployment. In this post, I'll walk you through the generation of a demo JHipster microservices application with Keycloak integration, and its deployment to Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE).

> {% img blog/keycloak-kubernetes-prod/keycloak-gke.png alt:"Keycloak, JHipster, GKE logos" width:"500" %}{: .center-image }

Reviewer: Nice image!

{% include toc.md %}

> ## Best practices for Keycloak in production

Reviewer: I've also seen "Recommended" as a word instead of "Best".

Author: Updated

- **Production grade database**: The database plays a crucial role in the performance and Keycloak supports several production-grade databases, including PostgreSQL.
- **High Availability**: Choose multi-mode clustered deployment. In production mode, distributed caching of realm and session data is enabled and all nodes in the network are discovered.

## Deploy microservices and Keycloak to Google Cloud

In this walkthrough, you will build a microservices architecture example from JHipster, consisting of a `gateway` application based on Spring Gateway and two reactive microservices `blog` and `store`. The `gateway` will act as the entrance to your microservices, providing HTTP routing and load balancing, quality of service, security and API documentation for all microservices. With the help of the JHipster Kubernetes sub-generator, you can deploy the application and its required services (Consul for service discovery, and Keycloak for OpenID Connect) to Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE).

### Build a microservices architecture

Install JHipster, you can do the classical local installation with npm.

```bash

> npm install -g generator-jhipster@7.9.3

Reviewer: This should be `@8`, correct?

Author: I have to update my OS for Node.js 18 and JHipster 8. Will get back soon.

Author: I just saw issue [#22718](https://github.com/jhipster/generator-jhipster/issues/22718) which affects the JDL import as well. I will try using the generator development setup.

```
If you'd rather use Yarn or Docker, follow the instructions at [jhipster.tech](https://www.jhipster.tech/installation/#local-installation-with-npm-recommended-for-normal-users).

Generate the microservices architecture from a JDL (JHipster-specific domain language) descriptor file. Create a folder for the project and add the file `reactive-ms.jdl` with the following content:

```text
application {
  config {
    baseName gateway
    reactive true
    packageName com.okta.developer.gateway
    applicationType gateway
    authenticationType oauth2
    buildTool gradle
    clientFramework vue
    prodDatabaseType postgresql
    serviceDiscoveryType consul
    testFrameworks [cypress]
  }
  entities Blog, Post, Tag, Product
}

application {
  config {
    baseName blog
    reactive true
    packageName com.okta.developer.blog
    applicationType microservice
    authenticationType oauth2
    buildTool gradle
    databaseType neo4j
    devDatabaseType neo4j

>     prodDatabaseType neo4j

Reviewer: In v8, this is invalid. You only need `databaseType`. I ran into this today. 

https://github.com/jhipster/jdl-samples/issues/51

Author: I ran into more JDL issues: ERROR! ERROR! In the relationship between Blog and User, User is not declared. If 'User' is a built-in entity declare like 'Blog to User with builtInEntity'.

Reviewer: Yep. If you look at the bottom of this PR's changes, you'll see I had to do this too. https://github.com/jhipster/jdl-samples/pull/52/files

Author: Updated the JDL

  Post{blog(name)} to Blog
}

relationship ManyToMany {
  Post{tag(name)} to Tag{post}
}

paginate Post, Tag with infinite-scroll
paginate Product with pagination

microservice Product with store
microservice Blog, Post, Tag with blog

deployment {
  deploymentType docker-compose
  appsFolders [gateway, blog, store]
  dockerRepositoryName "mraible"
}
```

Then run the following command:

```shell
jhipster jdl reactive-ms.jdl
```

After the generation, you will find sub-folders were created for the `gateway`, `store`, and `blog` services. The `gateway` will act as the front-end application and as a secure router to the `store` and `blog` microservices.

Create a [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/) personal account, if you don't have one. Then build and publish each application image. For example, in the `gateway` folder run:

```shell
./gradlew -Pprod bootJar jib \
-Djib.to.image=<your-dockerhub-username>/gateway \
-Djib.to.auth.username=<your-dockerhub-username> \
-Djib.to.auth.password=<your-dockerhub-secret>
```

**Note**: _your-dockerhub-secret_ can be your Docker Hub password, or a token if you have two-factor authentication enabled.

### Run the Kubernetes sub-generator

> Now let's generate the Kubernetes Yaml descriptors using JHipster. During the process, the generator will prompt for an FQDN (Fully qualified domain name) for the Ingress services, so let's first create a public IP on Google Cloud. With the help of [nip.io](nip.io), if you set <public-ip>.nip.io as your FQDN, you can test the deployment without having to purchase a real domain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now let's generate the Kubernetes descriptors using JHipster. During the process, the generator will prompt for an FQDN (Fully qualified domain name) for the Ingress services, so let's first create a public IP on Google Cloud. With the help of [nip.io](nip.io), if you set <public-ip>.nip.io as your FQDN, you can test the deployment without having to purchase a real domain.
```

- Kubernetes ingress type? **Google Kubernetes Engine Ingress**
- Root FQDN for ingress services: **\<public-ip\>.nip.io**
- Use dynamic storage provisioning? **Yes**
- Use a specific storage class? (leave empty)

### Customize the configuration

Let's Encrypt requires an email address to remind you to renew the certificate after 30 days before expiry. You will only receive this email if something goes wrong when renewing the certificate with cert-manager. Set the email address in the issuer yaml descriptor `kubernetes/cert-manager/letsencrypt-staging-issuer.yml`:

```yml
spec:
  acme:
    server: https://acme-staging-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory
    email: <your-email>
```

### Deploy to Google Kubernetes Engine

Create a Kubernetes cluster on Google Cloud:

```shell
gcloud container clusters create jhipster-cluster \
--zone southamerica-east1-a \
--machine-type n1-standard-4 \
--enable-autorepair \
--enable-autoupgrade
```

**Note**: you can choose a different zone and machine type.

Install [cert-manager](https://cert-manager.io/docs/tutorials/getting-started-with-cert-manager-on-google-kubernetes-engine-using-lets-encrypt-for-ingress-ssl/) in your cluster:

```shell

> kubectl apply -f https://github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager/releases/download/v1.10.0/cert-manager.yaml

Reviewer: The latest release seems to be 1.11.1. https://github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager/releases

Author: I set the wrong version and it was released again, latest is v1.12.1. Will try that version.

Author: Updated

2. The agent submits an order for a certificate to be issued
3. The CA issues a DNS01 or HTTP01 challenge
4. The CA provides a nonce the agent must sign with its private key
5. The agent completes the challenge
6. The agent signs the nonce with its private key
7. The agent notifies the CA it is ready for validation
8. The CA verifies the signature on the nonce satisfied
9. The CA verifies the challenge has been satisfied
10. The authorized agent sends a certificate signing request
11. The CA issues the certificate

### About ACME orders and challenges

When a `Certificate` resource is created, cert-manager automatically creates a `CertificateRequest`. An `Order` resource represents a single certificate request, also created automatically, and is used by the ACME issuer to manage the lifecycle of the ACME order for a signed TLS certificate. The `Order` resource manages challenges for the order with the `Challenge` resource.

The `Challenge` resource is queued for scheduled processing. The challenge controller will perform a self-check, and once it is passed, the ACME authorization is accepted for the ACME server to perform the validation.

### The HTTP01 Ingress solver

> The HTTP-01 challenge is the most common challenge type. Let's Encrypt gives a token to the agent, and the agent must place a file at http://<YOUR_DOMAIN>/.well-known/acme-challenge/<TOKEN> that contains the token and a thumbprint (computation) of the agent. Once the agent tells Let's Encrypt that the file is ready, Let's Encrypt validates the file and issues the certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The HTTP-01 challenge is the most common challenge type. Let's Encrypt gives a token to the agent, and the agent must place a file at `http://<YOUR_DOMAIN>/.well-known/acme-challenge/<TOKEN>` that contains the token and a thumbprint (computation) of the agent. Once the agent tells Let's Encrypt that the file is ready, Let's Encrypt validates the file and issues the certificate.
```

Need to wrap with back tics or the HTML brackets make content go away.

The challenge type is configured in the issuer, along with the ingress class for the solver. cert-manager will create a new Ingress resource to route Let's Encrypt challenge requests to the solver pods, which are also created automatically.

The following annotations are added by the k8s sub-generator in the ingress resource, for the challenge solver to work and the TLS certificate to be automatically created by cert-manager:

- `kubernetes.io/ingress.allow-http: "true"`: Required to allow HTTP connections from challenge requests
- `cert-manager.io/issuer: letsencrypt-staging`: The name of the issuer to acquire the certificate, which must be in the same namespace
- `acme.cert-manager.io/http01-edit-in-place: "true"`: The ingress is modified in place, instead of creating a new ingress resource for the HTTP01 challenge

> - `cert-manager.io/issue-temporary-certificate: "true"`: A temporary certificate will be set on the secret until the final certificate has been returned. used for keeping compatibility with the `ingress-gce` component.

Reviewer: Are all these settings in the same YAML file? If so, it might be easier to read by putting that code block here, with the explanations as comments. If they're not in the same file, please disregard.

Author: Updated

## Delegate authentication to Auth0

> Keycloak supports identity provider federation, meaning it can be configured to delegate authentication to one or more Identity Providers. An example of IDP federation is social login via Facebook or Google. Authentication can be delegated to any IDP supporting OpenID Connect or SAML 2.0. Auth0 uses the OpenID Connect protocol to authenticate users and allows adding custom logic to the login and identity flows via Auth0 Actions. JHipster applications require custom token claims for authorization,  and these can be configured using Auth0 Actions. The sections below describe the step-by-step process to add Auth0 authentication to the gateway using Keycloak, without making any application changes. You can find a detailed description of the [brokering flow](https://www.keycloak.org/docs/latest/server_admin/#_identity_broker_overview) in the Keycloak server administration guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keycloak supports identity provider federation, meaning it can be configured to delegate authentication to one or more Identity Providers. An example of IDP federation is social login via Facebook or Google. Authentication can be delegated to any IDP supporting OpenID Connect or SAML 2.0. Auth0 uses the OpenID Connect protocol to authenticate users and allows adding custom logic to the login and identity flows via Auth0 Actions. JHipster applications require custom access token claims for authorization, and these can be configured using Auth0 Actions. The sections below describe the step-by-step process to add Auth0 authentication to the gateway using Keycloak, without making any application changes. You can find a detailed description of the [brokering flow](https://www.keycloak.org/docs/latest/server_admin/#_identity_broker_overview) in the Keycloak server administration guide.
```

### Create an Auth0 account

Sign up at [Auth0](https://auth0.com/signup) and install the [Auth0 CLI](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-cli). Then run:

```shell
auth0 login
```

The terminal will display a device confirmation code and open a browser session to activate the device.

**NOTE**: My browser was not displaying anything, so I had to manually activate the device by opening the URL `https://auth0.auth0.com/activate?user_code={deviceCode}`.

> On successful login, you will see the tenant, which you will use as issuer later:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On successful login, you will see the tenant, which you will use as the issuer later:
```

```
✪ Welcome to the Auth0 CLI 🎊

If you don't have an account, please create one here: https://auth0.com/signup.

Your device confirmation code is: KGFL-LNVB

 ▸    Press Enter to open the browser to log in or ^C to quit...

Waiting for the login to complete in the browser... ⣻Opening in existing browser session.
Waiting for the login to complete in the browser... done

 ▸    Successfully logged in.
 ▸    Tenant: dev-avup2laz.us.auth0.com
```

The next step is to create a client app:

```shell

> auth0 apps create

Reviewer: You can do it all in one command!

```
auth0 apps create \
  --name "Spring Boot + Keycloak" \
  --description "JHipster + Spring Boot + Keycloak = 🤠" \
  --type regular \
  --callbacks https://keycloak.<namespace>.<public-ip>.nip.io/login/oauth2/code/oidc \
  --logout-urls http://gateway.<namespace>.<public-ip>.nip.io \
  --reveal-secrets
```

Author: Awesome! Updated

```

When prompted, choose the following options:

- Name: **jhipster**
- Description: **<optional description>**
- Type: **Regular Web Application**

> - Callback URLs: **https://keycloak.\<namespace\>.\<public-ip\>.nip.io/login/oauth2/code/auth0**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Callback URLs: **https://keycloak.\<namespace\>.\<public-ip\>.nip.io/login/oauth2/code/auth0**
```

I believe this URL should end in `oidc`, not `auth0`.

Author: I believe the suffix must be the alias given to the provider in Keycloak. Will add a note anc double check.

Author: The url is updated to match the alias after saving the oidc provider

- Logout URLs: **http://gateway.\<namespace\>.\<public-ip\>.nip.io**

Once the app is created, you will see the OIDC app's configuration:

```
Name: jhipster
Description: jhipster microservices
Callback URLs: ***
Allowed Logout URLs: ***

=== dev-avup2laz.us.auth0.com application created

  CLIENT ID            ***
  NAME                 jhipster
  DESCRIPTION          jhipster microservices
  TYPE                 Regular Web Application
  CALLBACKS            ***
  ALLOWED LOGOUT URLS  ***
  ALLOWED ORIGINS
  ALLOWED WEB ORIGINS
  TOKEN ENDPOINT AUTH
  GRANTS               implicit, authorization_code, refresh_token, client_credentials

 ▸    Quickstarts: https://auth0.com/docs/quickstart/webapp
 ▸    Hint: Emulate this app's login flow by running `auth0 test login ***`
 ▸    Hint: Consider running `auth0 quickstarts download ***`
```

> **NOTE**: The client secret is [not displayed](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-cli/issues/488) in the CLI output for regular applications. You can run `auth0 apps open` to open a browser in the application configuration. Then copy the secret from the **Settings** tab. In the example above, the tenant is `dev-avup2laz.us.auth0.com`.

Reviewer: If you use `--reveal-secrets` as I did above, you can remove this line.

Author: Updated

### Create users and roles

> As Auth0 will be used as the identity provider, you must create some test users. With auth0-cli:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As Auth0 will be used as the identity provider, you must create some test users. You can do this with the Auth0 CLI:
```

```shell
auth0 users create
```

Complete the required information, you will see an output like the lines below:

```text
Connection Name: Username-Password-Authentication
 Name: Patrick
 Email: patrick@email.com
 Password: ********

=== dev-avup2laz.us.auth0.com user created

  ID          auth0|643ec0e1e671c7c9c5916ed6    
  EMAIL       patrick@email.com                 
  CONNECTION  Username-Password-Authentication  
```

Save the ID for later.

> For this example, Auth0 will also be used for role management. JHipster applications are generated with authorization based on two roles that can be assigned to the user: `ROLE_USER` and `ROLE_ADMIN`. Create those roles in Auth0:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this example, Auth0 will also be used for role management. JHipster applications are generated with authorization based on two roles that can be assigned to the user: `ROLE_USER` and `ROLE_ADMIN`. Create these roles in Auth0:
```

```shell
autho0 roles create
```

You will see an output like the following:

```text
Name: ROLE_USER
Description: A user

=== dev-avup2laz.us.auth0.com role created

 ID           rol_175cvyWy20sxohgo  
 NAME         ROLE_USER             
 DESCRIPTION  A user     
```

Assign the roles to the users you created:

```shell
auth0 users roles assign
```

Follow the steps, you will see the output below:

```text
User ID: auth0|643ec0e1e671c7c9c5916ed6
? Roles rol_24d61Zxpvuas66tF (Name: ROLE_ADMIN), rol_175cvyWy20sxohgo (Name: ROLE_USER)

=== dev-avup2laz.us.auth0.com roles assigned to user (2)

  ID                    NAME        DESCRIPTION       
  rol_24d61Zxpvuas66tF  ROLE_ADMIN  An administrator  
  rol_175cvyWy20sxohgo  ROLE_USER   A user            
```

### Configure a Login Action

> Besides the roles assignment just explained, the authentication flow must be customized to add the roles and the username to the custom token claims expected by JHipster applications. The way to accomplish this task with Auth0 is by adding a Login Action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Besides the roles assignment I just explained, the authentication flow must be customized to add the roles and the username to the access token claims expected by JHipster applications. The way to accomplish this task with Auth0 is by adding a Login Action.
```

> First [configure the editor](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-cli#customization) to use in the environment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First [configure your preferred editor](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-cli#customization) to use with the Auth0 CLI:
```

```shell
export EDITOR=nano
```

Then create the Login Action:

```shell
auth0 actions create

> ```

Reviewer: This is soooo cool! I didn't know you could create actions with the Auth0 CLI. 🤩

```

You can list the available actions with the following command:

```shell
auth0 actions list
```
The output will show the deployment status of each action:

```text
=== dev-avup2laz.us.auth0.com actions

  ID                                    NAME      TYPE        STATUS  DEPLOYED  
  ee0ea308-0e50-4be3-893b-74f9ccbb3703  jhipster  post-login  built   ✗         
```

Note the `DEPLOYED` status is `x`. Go ahead and deploy it using the action ID:

```shell
auth0 actions deploy ee0ea308-0e50-4be3-893b-74f9ccbb3703
```

Once the action is deployed, you must attach it to the login flow. Sign in to Auth0, and on the left menu choose **Actions**. Then in the Flows screen, choose **Login**. On the right bottom section, choose **Custom**. Drag the **jhipster** action to the flow diagram. Then click **Apply**. The flow should look like the following:

{% img blog/keycloak-kubernetes-prod/login-flow.png alt:"Custom Auth0 Login Action" width:"500" %}{: .center-image }

Now that all is set on the identity provider side, let's configure Keycloak as an identity broker delegating authentication to Auth0.

### Add the Auth0 Identity Provider

> Navigate to **http://keycloak.\<namespace\>.\<public-ip\>.nip.io**, sign in with admin/admin. On the welcome page, choose **Administration Console**. On the left menu, for the top options,  choose the **jhipster** realm. Then, at the bottom of the menu, choose **Identity providers**. In the User-defined section, choose **OpenID Connect v1.0**. Fill in the provider configuration as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to **http://keycloak.\<namespace\>.\<public-ip\>.nip.io**, and sign in with admin/admin. On the welcome page, choose **Administration Console**. On the left menu, for the top options,  choose the **jhipster** realm. Then, at the bottom of the menu, choose **Identity providers**. In the User-defined section, choose **OpenID Connect v1.0**. Fill in the provider configuration as follows:
```

Reviewer: We should tell users to change the admin credentials right away.

- RedirectURI: **(pre-filled)**
- Alias: **auth0**
- User discovery endpoint: **On**

> - Discovery endpoint: **https://\<auth0-tenant\>/.well-known/openid-configuration**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Discovery endpoint: **https://\<auth0-domain\>/.well-known/openid-configuration**
```

- Client authentication: **Client secret sent as post**

> - Client ID: **auht0-client-id**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Client ID: **auth0-client-id**
```

On the left menu, choose **Authentication**. In the flows table, choose **browser**. In the _Identity Provider Redirector_ step, click the **gear** icon. Set an alias for the configuration, and set **auth0** as the default identity provider. This configuration will skip the Keycloak sign-in form, and display the Auth0 sign-in form directly.

{% img blog/keycloak-kubernetes-prod/auth0-redirector.png alt:"Identity provider redirector to Auth0" width:"450" %}{: .center-image }

Go back to **Authentication**, and choose the **first broker login** flow. Disable the _Review Profile_ step.

### Map the roles claim

The users that sign in through Auth0 are imported to Keycloak. The role assigned in Auth0 must be mapped to the pre-configured roles in Keycloak for the authorization mechanism to work. In the Keycloak Administration Console, go to **Identity providers** again, and choose **auth0**. Then choose the **Mappers** tab. Click **Add mapper**. Fill in the values as follows and click **Save**:

- Name: **ROLE_USER**
- Sync mode override: **Force** (update the user roles during every login)
- Mapper type: **Claim to Role**

> - Claim: **https://www\\.jhipster\\.tech/roles** (escape the dot (.) with backslash (\\.))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Claim: **https://www\\.jhipster\\.tech/roles** (escape the dot `.` with backslash `\\.`)
```

- Claim Value: **ROLE_USER**
- Role: Select **ROLE_USER**

Repeat the process for mapping `ROLE_ADMIN`.

{% img blog/keycloak-kubernetes-prod/role-mapper.png alt:"Add mapper form" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

### Test Keycloak as an identity broker

> Navigate to **http://gateway.\<namespace\>.\<public-ip\>.nip.io**, the gateway home must display. Click on **sign in** and the browser should be redirected to the Auth0 sign-in form:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to **http://gateway.\<namespace\>.\<public-ip\>.nip.io**. The gateway homepage should display. Click on **sign in** and you should be redirected to the Auth0 sign-in form:
```

{% img blog/keycloak-kubernetes-prod/auth0-login.png alt:"Add mapper form" width:"350" %}{: .center-image }

> After signing in, the gateway home page will display the username (email). If roles were mapped correctly, the user should be able to create entities (granted by ROLE_USER), and the Administration menu will also display (granted by ROLE_ADMIN).

Reviewer: I'm not sure if we should surround ROLE_USER and ROLE_ADMIN with back tics. It looks fine without.

Author: Removed the back ticks.

## Learn More about Keycloak in production

I hope you enjoyed this post and learned about some best practices for deploying Keycloak to production when doing JHipster development. Keep learning about Keycloak and JHipster! Check out the following links:

- [Integrate React Native and Spring Boot Securely](/blog/2022/10/12/integrate-react-native-and-spring-boot-securely)
- [Use GitHub Actions to Build GraalVM Native Images](/blog/2022/04/22/github-actions-graalvm)
- [Full Stack Java with React, Spring Boot, and JHipster](https://auth0.com/blog/full-stack-java-with-react-spring-boot-and-jhipster/)

> - [Introducing Spring Native for JHipster: Serverless Full-Stack Made Easy](/blog/2022/03/03/spring-native-jhipster)

Reviewer: These are a bit old and we should update. Here's some recent ones:

- https://auth0.com/blog/developers/
- https://developer.okta.com/blog/tags/auth0/

Author: Should the linked posts be related (Keycloak, Spring Boot)?

Reviewer: If possible, yes. I think it's OK to include JHipster too, or any Java-related post.

Author: Added newer posts.

> For more tutorials like this one, follow [@oktadev](https://twitter.com/oktadev) on Twitter. We also have a [YouTube channel](https://youtube.com/c/oktadev) you might like. If you have any questions, please leave a comment below!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more tutorials like this one, follow [@oktadev](https://twitter.com/oktadev) on Twitter. We also have a [YouTube channel](https://youtube.com/oktadev) you might like. If you have any questions, please leave a comment below!
```

Keycloak is the default OpenID Connect server configured with JHipster. Using Keycloak with JHipster is an excellent way to ensure that your web applications are secure and well-protected from unauthorized access. By integrating Keycloak to your applications, you can easily implement authentication and authorization, manage user identities, and provide secure access to resources.

The JHipster Kubernetes generator creates all the necessary Kubernetes resources, such as deployments, services, and ingresses, based on the configuration of the JHipster application. This includes setting up the database, configuring security, and setting up any necessary environment variables. Since JHipster 8, the Kubernetes sub-generator supports Keycloak for Ingress GKE deployment. In this post, I'll walk you through the generation of a demo Spring Boot microservices application with Keycloak integration using JHipster, and its deployment to Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE).

{% img blog/keycloak-kubernetes-prod/keycloak-gke.png alt:"Keycloak, JHipster, GKE logos" width:"500" %}{: .center-image }

> 

Reviewer: Can you please add a prerequisite section here so folks know what versions to use? For example, I tried Java 20 and got a failure from Gradle.

Author: Added a tools section

{% include toc.md %}

> ## Recommended practices for Keycloak in production

Reviewer 2: This section feels a bit out of place, wouldnt it make more sense later on after you have created apps and tested things locally? for unassuming readers this could be confusing

Author: I moved it to the bottomm, before "learn more". Please let me know if it makes more sense now.

> Keycloak can be started in development mode with the `start-dev` command or production mode with the `start` command. Production mode follows a _secure by default_ principle and expects _hostname_ and _HTTPS/TLS_ configuration to be set, otherwise, Keycloak won't start and will display an error. Also, in production mode HTTP is disabled by default.

Reviewer 2: What kind of commands are these (`start-dev`, `start`) ? would be nice to be more precise, I assume they are npm commands from jHipster? It would be nice to mention what they are and where you can find them

Author: Added more precision.

Keycloak documentation provides some key guidelines for production deployment that apply to all environments.

> - **HTTPS/TLS**: The exchange of credentials and other sensitive data with Keycloak requires all communication to and from Keycloak to be secured, so HTTP over TLS must be enabled.

Reviewer 2: where should it be enabled? is it shown later on else a hint would be nice

Author: Added a comment about where it should be enabled.

- **Keycloak hostname**: Keycloak usually runs in a private network but certain public-facing endpoints must be exposed to applications. The base URLs determine how tokens are issued and validated, how action links are created, and how the OpenID Connect Discovery Document `realms/{realm-name}/.well-known/openid-configuration` is created.

> - **Reverse proxy**: A reverse proxy/load balancer component is recommended for a production environment, unifying access to the network. Keycloak supports multiple proxy modes. The `edge` mode allows HTTP communication between the proxy and Keycloak, and the proxy keeps a secure connection with clients.

Reviewer 2: maybe a link to some resource about this?

Author: Added a link to keycloak reverse proxy doc. Did I understood the idea?

- **High Availability**: Choose multi-mode clustered deployment. In production mode, distributed caching of realm and session data is enabled and all nodes in the network are discovered.

## Deploy Spring Boot microservices and Keycloak to Google Kubernetes Engine

In this walkthrough, you will build a microservices architecture example from JHipster, consisting of a `gateway` application based on Spring Gateway and two Spring Boot reactive microservices `blog` and `store`. The `gateway` will act as the entrance to your microservices, providing HTTP routing and load balancing, quality of service, security and API documentation for all microservices. With the help of the JHipster Kubernetes sub-generator, you can deploy the application and its required services (Consul for service discovery, and Keycloak for OpenID Connect) to Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE).

### Build the Spring Boot microservices architecture

Install JHipster, you can do the classical local installation with npm.

```bash
npm install -g generator-jhipster@7.9.3
```

> If you'd rather use Yarn or Docker, follow the instructions at [jhipster.tech](https://www.jhipster.tech/installation/#local-installation-with-npm-recommended-for-normal-users).

Reviewer: I'm not sure this is necessary. I haven't mentioned this in my previous JHipster tutorials. What do you think, @deepu105?

Reviewer 2: I think better to remove this and just show NPM stuff, we removed Yarn support anyway

Author: Removed

> Generate the microservices architecture from a JDL (JHipster-specific domain language) descriptor file. Create a folder for the project and add the file `reactive-ms.jdl` with the following content:

Reviewer 2: expansion of JDL is just JHipster Domain Language

Author: Updated

```text
application {
  config {
    baseName gateway

>     reactive true

Reviewer 2: This post doent talk about reactive right so I suggest to drop reactive from all apps to keep things simple

Author: I will update the JDL and test everything again.

Author: Reactive removed. Tested and it worked.

Reviewer: For an application of type `gateway`, it doesn't matter if you specify reactive or not. It will always be reactive because Spring Cloud Gateway only supports WebFlux. This is changing, but JHipster will need to implement a Spring MVC version before it matters. https://twitter.com/spencerbgibb/status/1677547823938641920

    serverPort 8081
    serviceDiscoveryType consul
  }
  entities Blog, Post, Tag
}

application {
  config {
    baseName store
    reactive true
    packageName com.okta.developer.store
    applicationType microservice
    authenticationType oauth2
    buildTool gradle
    databaseType mongodb
    enableHibernateCache false
    serverPort 8082
    serviceDiscoveryType consul
  }
  entities Product
}

entity Blog {
  name String required minlength(3)
  handle String required minlength(2)
}

entity Post {
  title String required
  content TextBlob required
  date Instant required
}

entity Tag {
  name String required minlength(2)
}

entity Product {
  title String required
  price BigDecimal required min(0)
  image ImageBlob
}

relationship ManyToOne {
  Blog{user(login)} to User with builtInEntity
  Post{blog(name)} to Blog
}

relationship ManyToMany {
  Post{tag(name)} to Tag{post}
}

paginate Post, Tag with infinite-scroll
paginate Product with pagination

microservice Product with store
microservice Blog, Post, Tag with blog

deployment {
  deploymentType docker-compose
  appsFolders [gateway, blog, store]
  dockerRepositoryName "indiepopart"
}
```

> Repalce the `dockerRepositoryName` with your account name. Then run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace the `dockerRepositoryName` with your [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/) account name. Then run the following command:
```

```shell
jhipster jdl reactive-ms.jdl
```

After the generation, you will find sub-folders were created for the `gateway`, `store`, and `blog` services. The `gateway` will act as the front-end application and as a secure router to the `store` and `blog` microservices.

> Create a [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/) personal account, if you don't have one. Then build and publish each application image. For example, in the `gateway` folder run:

Reviewer: This might need to be moved up (or mentioned in prerequisites) because it's used in the JDL before this part.

Author: Moved up and added to required services

```shell
./gradlew -Pprod bootJar jib \
-Djib.to.image=<your-dockerhub-username>/gateway \

> -Djib.to.auth.username=<your-dockerhub-username> \

Reviewer 2: If you are already logged in using `docker login` it is not required pass username/pass to each command

Author: Added a note

> -Djib.to.auth.password=<your-dockerhub-secret>

Reviewer: I like to indent the commands that follow the initial one by two spaces. I think it makes it easier to read. See my [recent post](https://auth0.com/blog/spring-boot-angular-crud/) and the `auth0 apps create` command to see what I mean visually.

Author: I indented the multi-line commands. Please check If understood ok.

```

> **Note**: _your-dockerhub-secret_ can be your Docker Hub password, or a token if you have two-factor authentication enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: The _your-dockerhub-secret_ value will be your Docker Hub password or an access token if you have two-factor authentication enabled.
```

### Run the Kubernetes sub-generator

> Now let's generate the Kubernetes descriptors using JHipster. During the process, the generator will prompt for an FQDN (Fully qualified domain name) for the Ingress services, so let's first create a public IP on Google Cloud. With the help of [nip.io](nip.io), if you set <public-ip>.nip.io as your FQDN, you can test the deployment without having to purchase a real domain.

Reviewer 2: Doesn't GCP automatically create a public IP for the store gateway since its configured as load balanced service? I normally use the service's public IP from `kubectl get svc` along with nip.io

Author: I followed that part of the approach from [Matt's post](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2021/06/01/kubernetes-spring-boot-jhipster). A static IP is required for TLS certificates. The k8s generator prompts for an FQDN that must be known before GCP deployment, for ingress hosts and certificate configuration. In the tutorial the FQDN is public-ip.nip.io. What could be a way for using the automatic ip during k8s generation? Or different approach?

This is how the generated ingress yaml looks like:
```ỳml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: gateway
  namespace: demo
  annotations:
    kubernetes.io/ingress.allow-http: "true"
    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: gce
    kubernetes.io/ingress.global-static-ip-name: gateway-ip
    cert-manager.io/issuer: letsencrypt-staging
    acme.cert-manager.io/http01-edit-in-place: "true"
    cert-manager.io/issue-temporary-certificate: "true"
spec:
  rules:
    - host: gateway.demo.35.190.67.128.nip.io
      http:
        paths:
          - path: /*
            pathType: ImplementationSpecific
            backend:
              service:
                name: gateway
                port:
                  name: http
    - host: keycloak.demo.35.190.67.128.nip.io
      http:
        paths:
          - path: /*
            pathType: ImplementationSpecific
            backend:
              service:
                name: keycloak
                port:
                  number: 9080
  tls:
    - secretName: keycloak-ssl
      hosts:
        - keycloak.demo.35.190.67.128.nip.io
```

Reviewer 2: Oh yes, that makes sense. I totally overlooked that

Google Cloud provides a [free tier](https://cloud.google.com/free) of their services that grants you $300 in free credits if you are a new user.

After you sign up, install [`gcloud` CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install). When you reach the end of the process, the last step is to run `gcloud init` and set up authorization for the tool. Also, install the [Kubectl authentication plugin](https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/containers-kubernetes/kubectl-auth-changes-in-gke).

```shell
gcloud compute addresses create gateway-ip --global

> ```

Reviewer: When I first ran this in a new project, it prompted me to install compute.

```
API [compute.googleapis.com] not enabled on project [379941542179]. Would you like to enable and retry (this will take a
 few minutes)? (y/N)?  y
```

Not sure if we should mention this or not.

Author: I will QA with a clean project and add notes.

Author: Added instructions to enabled the required APIs in advance.

**Note**: The name for public IP must be the gateway or monolith application base name, you can find it in the JDL. For the current example, the application base name is `gateway`.

```
application {
  config {
    baseName gateway
    applicationType gateway
```

Find out the IP address with the following command:

```shell
gcloud compute addresses describe gateway-ip --global --format='value(address)'
```

> Create a `kuberntes` folder at the root of the project, and run the generator:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a `kubernetes` folder at the root of the project, and run the generator:
```

> ```shell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell
mkdir kubernetes
cd kubernetes
```

I almost missed this step, so it might be good to add it.

> jhipster kubernetes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
jhipster kubernetes
```

You can also use 'k8s` as the command, which is easier to type.

- Root directory: **../**
- Which applications? (select all)
- Set up monitoring? **No**
- Which applications with clustered databases? select **store**
- Kubernetes namespace: **demo**
- Docker repository name: **your-dockerhub-username**
- Command to push Docker image: `docker push`
- Enable Istio? **No**
- Kubernetes service type? **Ingress**
- Kubernetes ingress type? **Google Kubernetes Engine Ingress**
- Root FQDN for ingress services: **\<public-ip\>.nip.io**
- Use dynamic storage provisioning? **Yes**
- Use a specific storage class? (leave empty)

### Customize the configuration

Let's Encrypt requires an email address to remind you to renew the certificate after 30 days before expiry. You will only receive this email if something goes wrong when renewing the certificate with cert-manager. Set the email address in the issuer yaml descriptor `kubernetes/cert-manager/letsencrypt-staging-issuer.yml`:

```yml
spec:
  acme:
    server: https://acme-staging-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory
    email: <your-email>
```

### Deploy to Google Kubernetes Engine

Create a Kubernetes cluster on Google Cloud:

```shell
gcloud container clusters create jhipster-cluster \

> --zone southamerica-east1-a \

Reviewer: Is southamerica used for any particular reason? I remember Andrew having to create something in Australia once because it wasn't available elsewhere.

Reviewer: Nevermind,  you answered this question below.

--machine-type n1-standard-4 \
--enable-autorepair \

> --enable-autoupgrade

Reviewer: Indent arguments after first line with 2 spaces.

Reviewer: I get an error when running this command:

```
ERROR: (gcloud.container.clusters.create) ResponseError: code=400, 
message=Failed precondition when calling the ServiceConsumerManager: 
tenantmanager::185014: Consumer 379941542179 should enable 
service:container.googleapis.com before generating a service account.
com.google.api.tenant.error.TenantManagerException: Consumer 379941542179 
should enable service:container.googleapis.com before generating a service account.
```

Reviewer: Running `gcloud services enable container.googleapis.com` fixes the above error.

Source: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/64537546/error-gcloud-container-clusters-create-responseerror-code-400-message-faile

Author: Added note to enable required APIs in advance.

```

**Note**: you can choose a different zone and machine type.

Then fetch the cluster credentials with:

```shell
gcloud container clusters get-credentials jhipster-cluster --zone southamerica-east1-a
```

`get-credentials` will update a `kubeconfig` file with appropriate credentials and endpoint information to point `kubectl` at a specific cluster in Google Kubernetes Engine.

Install [cert-manager](https://cert-manager.io/docs/tutorials/getting-started-with-cert-manager-on-google-kubernetes-engine-using-lets-encrypt-for-ingress-ssl/) in your cluster:

```shell

> kubectl apply -f https://github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager/releases/download/v1.12.1/cert-manager.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager/releases/download/v1.12.2/cert-manager.yaml
```

A new version is available.

```

> **Note**: If you see a `kubectl` error __The gcp auth plugin has been removed. __, see [https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/containers-kubernetes/kubectl-auth-changes-in-gke](https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/containers-kubernetes/kubectl-auth-changes-in-gke) for details on how to fix it.

Reviewer: Should the "gcp auth plugin..." part be italicized? It shows up with the underscores in the rendered HTML.

Author: Fixed

> **Note**: If you see a `kubectl` error __The gcp auth plugin has been removed. __, see [https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/containers-kubernetes/kubectl-auth-changes-in-gke](https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/containers-kubernetes/kubectl-auth-changes-in-gke) for details on how to fix it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: If you see a `kubectl` error __The gcp auth plugin has been removed.__, see [Here's what to know about changes to kubectl authentication coming in GKE v1.26](https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/containers-kubernetes/kubectl-auth-changes-in-gke) for details on how to fix it.
```

Apply the deployment descriptors, from the `kubernetes` folder:

```shell
./kubectl-apply.sh -f
```

> **Important note**: Keycloak client applications (a monolith or microservices) will fail the startup until Let's Encrypt has issued the certificate and it has been synchronized inside the cluster. In the following section, the issuance process is explained in more detail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Important note**: Keycloak client applications (a monolith or microservices) will fail to start until Let's Encrypt has issued the certificate and it has synchronized inside the cluster. In the following section, the issuance process is explained in more detail.
```

  ----    ------     ----  ----                                       -------
  Normal  Issuing    10m   cert-manager-certificates-trigger          Issuing certificate as Secret does not exist
  Normal  Generated  10m   cert-manager-certificates-key-manager      Stored new private key in temporary Secret resource "keycloak-ssl-rsfkj"
  Normal  Requested  10m   cert-manager-certificates-request-manager  Created new CertificateRequest resource "keycloak-ssl-mp8s7"
  Normal  Issuing    10m   cert-manager-certificates-issuing          Issued temporary certificate
  Normal  Issuing    4m    cert-manager-certificates-issuing          The certificate has been successfully issued
```
Also, the ingress service will be updated once the certificate is available. You can check the ingress events with the following command:

```shell
kubectl describe ingress gateway -n demo
```

The output should contain the message "certs updated":

```text
Events:
  Type     Reason             Age                   From                       Message
  ----     ------             ----                  ----                       -------

> ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ...
```

  Normal   Sync               78s (x2 over 4m33s)  loadbalancer-controller    UrlMap "k8s2-um-ag6evarw-demo-gateway-gijhgcnp" updated
  Normal   Sync               66s (x9 over 9m6s)   loadbalancer-controller    Scheduled for sync
  Normal   Sync               25s                  loadbalancer-controller    TargetProxy "k8s2-ts-ag6evarw-demo-gateway-gijhgcnp" certs updated
```

> Once the cluster is healthy, you can test the deployment by navigating to **http://gateway.\<namespace\>.\<public-ip\>.nip.io** :

Reviewer: When I first tried to go to `http://gateway.demo.34.111.205.125.nip.io/`, I got an error:

<img width="1003" alt="Screenshot 2023-06-30 at 4 53 25 PM" src="https://github.com/oktadev/okta-blog/assets/17892/51b855fb-86b6-4271-9c95-5480af3b6cab">

Reviewer: This is probably because the certificate is still being issued. 

```
$ kubectl describe ingress gateway -n demo

Events:
  Type    Reason     Age    From                                       Message
  ----    ------     ----   ----                                       -------
  Normal  Issuing    13m    cert-manager-certificates-trigger          Issuing certificate as Secret does not exist
  Normal  Generated  13m    cert-manager-certificates-key-manager      Stored new private key in temporary Secret resource "keycloak-ssl-59t4w"
  Normal  Requested  13m    cert-manager-certificates-request-manager  Created new CertificateRequest resource "keycloak-ssl-w67hm"
  Normal  Issuing    13m    cert-manager-certificates-issuing          Issued temporary certificate
  Normal  Issuing    7m32s  cert-manager-certificates-issuing          The certificate has been successfully issued
```

Author: > When I first tried to go to `http://gateway.demo.34.111.205.125.nip.io/`, I got an error:
> 
> <img alt="Screenshot 2023-06-30 at 4 53 25 PM" width="1003" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17892/250210092-51b855fb-86b6-4271-9c95-5480af3b6cab.png">

Was the gateway pod ready? I got the same error, but the pod was not in Running status. Adding a note.

Author: Added the note.

{% img blog/keycloak-kubernetes-prod/gateway-home.png alt:"Gateway homepage" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

If you click on **Sign in** you will be redirected to the Keycloak sign-in page. As the certificate for TLS was issued by the Let's Encrypt staging environment, the browser won't trust it by default. Accept the certificate and you will be able to sign in. If you inspect the certificate, you will find the certificate hierarchy.

{% img blog/keycloak-kubernetes-prod/firefox-warning.png alt:"Firefox browser warning" width:"700" %}{: .center-image }

{% img blog/keycloak-kubernetes-prod/firefox-advanced.png alt:"Firefox advanced information on warning" width:"700" %}{: .center-image }

{% img blog/keycloak-kubernetes-prod/certificate-info.png alt:"Certificate information" width:"700" %}{: .center-image }

> ## Using cert-manager with Let's Encrypt Certificates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use cert-manager with Let's Encrypt Certificates
```

I think it sounds better to say "Use" rather than "using" in the headings.

The following annotations are added by the k8s sub-generator in the ingress resource, for the challenge solver to work and the TLS certificate to be automatically created by cert-manager:

```yml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: gateway
  namespace: demo
  annotations:
    kubernetes.io/ingress.allow-http: "true" # Required to allow HTTP connections from challenge requests
    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: gce
    kubernetes.io/ingress.global-static-ip-name: gateway-ip
    cert-manager.io/issuer: letsencrypt-staging # The name of the issuer to acquire the certificate, which must be in the same namespace
    acme.cert-manager.io/http01-edit-in-place: "true" # The ingress is modified in place, instead of creating a new ingress resource for the HTTP01 challenge
    cert-manager.io/issue-temporary-certificate: "true" # A temporary certificate will be set on the secret until the final certificate has been returned. used for keeping compatibility with the `ingress-gce` component
```

## Delegate authentication to Auth0

> Keycloak supports identity provider federation, meaning it can be configured to delegate authentication to one or more Identity Providers. An example of IDP federation is social login via Facebook or Google. Authentication can be delegated to any IDP supporting OpenID Connect or SAML 2.0. Auth0 uses the OpenID Connect protocol to authenticate users and allows adding custom logic to the login and identity flows via Auth0 Actions. JHipster applications require custom access token claims for authorization, and these can be configured using Auth0 Actions. The sections below describe the step-by-step process to add Auth0 authentication to the gateway using Keycloak, without making any application changes. You can find a detailed description of the [brokering flow](https://www.keycloak.org/docs/latest/server_admin/#_identity_broker_overview) in the Keycloak server administration guide.

Reviewer: I would break this into two paragraphs starting with "JHipster applications require...".

Author: Updated

                  * @param {Event} event - Details about the user and the context in which they are logging in.           
                  * @param {PostLoginAPI} api - Interface whose methods can be used to change the behavior of the login.  
                  */                                                                                                      
                 // exports.onContinuePostLogin = async (event, api) => {                                                 
                 // };                                                                                                    

```

You can list the available actions with the following command:

```shell
auth0 actions list
```
The output will show the deployment status of each action:

```text
=== dev-avup2laz.us.auth0.com actions

  ID                                    NAME      TYPE        STATUS  DEPLOYED  
  ee0ea308-0e50-4be3-893b-74f9ccbb3703  jhipster  post-login  built   ✗         
```

Note the `DEPLOYED` status is `x`. Go ahead and deploy it using the action ID:

```shell
auth0 actions deploy ee0ea308-0e50-4be3-893b-74f9ccbb3703
```

> Once the action is deployed, you must attach it to the login flow. Sign in to Auth0, and on the left menu choose **Actions**. Then in the Flows screen, choose **Login**. On the right bottom section, choose **Custom**. Drag the **jhipster** action to the flow diagram. Then click **Apply**. The flow should look like the following:

Reviewer: Are you sure the dashboard has to be used here and can't be added with the CLI?

Author: I could not find an auth0 command for flow management. Please let me know if you found some related doc.

Reviewer 2: i'll check with our tools team

Reviewer 2: Seems like there is no direct command but can be done using the[ `api` command](https://auth0.github.io/auth0-cli/auth0_api.html) calling the [Update trigger bindings](https://auth0.com/docs/api/management/v2#!/Actions/patch_bindings)
```
auth0 api patch "actions/triggers/post-login/bindings" --data '{"bindings": [...]}'
```

Author: Added api command to the post.

> {% img blog/keycloak-kubernetes-prod/login-flow.png alt:"Custom Auth0 Login Action" width:"500" %}{: .center-image }

Reviewer: I prefer a light version of this image, but that's probably because I'm biased against dark themes. ;)

<img width="652" alt="Screenshot 2023-06-30 at 5 11 32 PM" src="https://github.com/oktadev/okta-blog/assets/17892/487b1047-d29f-42ae-ac2b-215c5529c403">

Author: Replaced

Now that all is set on the identity provider side, let's configure Keycloak as an identity broker delegating authentication to Auth0.

### Add the Auth0 Identity Provider

> Navigate to **http://keycloak.\<namespace\>.\<public-ip\>.nip.io**, and sign in with admin/admin. On the welcome page, choose **Administration Console**. On the left menu, for the top options,  choose the **jhipster** realm. Then, at the bottom of the menu, choose **Identity providers**. In the User-defined section, choose **OpenID Connect v1.0**. Fill in the provider configuration as follows:

Reviewer: https works too, but has a warning about the certificate.

Author: I changed the URL to HTTPS. Browsers don't trust by default Let's Encrypt staging so the warning will still display.

- RedirectURI: **(pre-filled)**
- Alias: **auth0**
- User discovery endpoint: **On**
- Discovery endpoint: **https://\<auth0-domain\>/.well-known/openid-configuration**
- Client authentication: **Client secret sent as post**
- Client ID: **auth0-client-id**

> - Client Secret: **auth0-client-secret**

Reviewer: The default is "algorithm not specified", which seems kinda scary.

Author: I added a note about **client assertion signature algorithm**. I believe it is not required for the sleected client authentication method **client secret sent as post**. Also it seems Auth0 free plan does not support client authentication with JWTs. Please let me know if my assumptions are ok.

Reviewer: I asked a colleague about the Auth0 free plan and client authentication, and he said "All of our authentication flows use JWT regardless of plan".

Author: In Auth0 dashboard, I saw something different in the application details, credentials tab. The "Private Key JWT" option is disabled and it has a label "Enterprise".

### Map the roles claim

The users that sign in through Auth0 are imported to Keycloak. The role assigned in Auth0 must be mapped to the pre-configured roles in Keycloak for the authorization mechanism to work. In the Keycloak Administration Console, go to **Identity providers** again, and choose **auth0**. Then choose the **Mappers** tab. Click **Add mapper**. Fill in the values as follows and click **Save**:

- Name: **ROLE_USER**
- Sync mode override: **Force** (update the user roles during every login)
- Mapper type: **Claim to Role**
- Claim: **https://www\\.jhipster\\.tech/roles** (escape the dot `.` with backslash `\.`)
- Claim Value: **ROLE_USER**
- Role: Select **ROLE_USER**

Repeat the process for mapping ROLE_ADMIN.

{% img blog/keycloak-kubernetes-prod/role-mapper.png alt:"Add mapper form" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

### Test Keycloak as an identity broker

Navigate to **http://gateway.\<namespace\>.\<public-ip\>.nip.io**. The gateway homepage should display. Click on **sign in** and you should be redirected to the Auth0 sign-in form:

{% img blog/keycloak-kubernetes-prod/auth0-login.png alt:"Add mapper form" width:"350" %}{: .center-image }

> After signing in, the gateway home page will display the username (email). If roles were mapped correctly, the user should be able to create entities (granted by ROLE_USER), and the Administration menu will also display (granted by ROLE_ADMIN).

Reviewer: I got everything to work! Nice job explaining how to configure everything. 👏

## Learn More about Keycloak in production

> I hope you enjoyed this post and learned about some best practices for deploying Keycloak to production when doing JHipster development. Keep learning about Keycloak and Spring Boot! Check out the following links:

Reviewer: I think we should have two additional sections to make this a "best practices" post.

1. Show how to change the admin's password after everything is first deployed. 
2. The apps aren't using HTTPS. Will the HTTPS certs eventually be valid? If so, I think we should mention it. If not, we should add info on how to make them HTTPS or link to a guide that shows how.

Forcing HTTPS might be a good idea too. JHipster's documentation shows how to do this. https://www.jhipster.tech/security/#https

Reviewer: We should also show how to destroy the cluster so people don't forget. 

```
gcloud container clusters delete jhipster-cluster --zone=southamerica-east1-a
gcloud compute addresses delete gateway-ingress-ip --global
```

Author: > We should also show how to destroy the cluster so people don't forget.
> 
> ```
> gcloud container clusters delete jhipster-cluster --zone=southamerica-east1-a
> gcloud compute addresses delete gateway-ingress-ip --global
> ```

Added the commands

Author: > I think we should have two additional sections to make this a "best practices" post.
> 
> 1. Show how to change the admin's password after everything is first deployed.
> 2. The apps aren't using HTTPS. Will the HTTPS certs eventually be valid? If so, I think we should mention it. If not, we should add info on how to make them HTTPS or link to a guide that shows how.
> 
> Forcing HTTPS might be a good idea too. JHipster's documentation shows how to do this. https://www.jhipster.tech/security/#https

I was narrowing the focus on best practices for deploying Keycloak but I see the point. 
I will add point 1 to the post.

As the certificate for Kecloak TLS is issued by the Let’s Encrypt staging environment, the browser won’t trust it by default. This is mentioned in the post. I did not test with Let's Encrypt production. I am assuming certificates will be trusted by browsers if issued by Let's Encrypt production for a real domain.
I will add info on HTTPS for the apps.

Author: Added info on HTTPS for the gateway.

- [Integrate React Native and Spring Boot Securely](/blog/2022/10/12/integrate-react-native-and-spring-boot-securely)
- [Full Stack Java with React, Spring Boot, and JHipster](https://auth0.com/blog/full-stack-java-with-react-spring-boot-and-jhipster/)
- [Build a Beautiful CRUD App with Spring Boot and Angular](https://auth0.com/blog/spring-boot-angular-crud/)
- [Get Started with Jetty, Java, and OAuth](https://auth0.com/blog/java-jetty-oauth/)

> For more tutorials like this one, follow [@oktadev](https://twitter.com/oktadev) on Twitter. We also have a [YouTube channel](https://youtube.com/oktadev) you might like. If you have any questions, please leave a comment below!

Reviewer: ```suggestion

If you're interested in getting staying informed about Auth0 every month, [subscribe to our Zero Index Newsletter](https://a0.to/nl-signup/java)!

For more tutorials like this one, follow [@oktadev](https://twitter.com/oktadev) on Twitter. We also have a [YouTube channel](https://youtube.com/oktadev) you might like. If you have any questions, please leave a comment below!
```

> - [DockerHub account](https://hub.docker.com/)
> - [Docker 24.0.2](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/)
> - [Google Cloud CLI 437.0.1](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install)
> - [Kubectl v1.26.3](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)
> - [Auth0 account](https://auth0.com/signup)
> - [Auth0 CLI 1.0.0](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-cli#installation)

{% include toc.md %}

## Deploy Spring Boot microservices and Keycloak to Google Kubernetes Engine

In this walkthrough, you will build a microservices architecture example from JHipster, consisting of a `gateway` application based on Spring Gateway and two Spring Boot microservices `blog` and `store`. The `gateway` will act as the entrance to your microservices, providing HTTP routing and load balancing, quality of service, security and API documentation for all microservices. With the help of the JHipster Kubernetes sub-generator, you can deploy the application and its required services (Consul for service discovery, and Keycloak for OpenID Connect) to Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE).

### Build the Spring Boot microservices architecture

Install JHipster, you can do the classical local installation with npm.

```bash

> npm install -g generator-jhipster@8.0.0-beta.1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
npm install -g generator-jhipster@8.0.0-beta.2
```

Author: @mraible @deepu105  I finished working on the suggestions. I will test beta 2 now.

Author: @mraible @deepu105 issue  [#22718](https://github.com/jhipster/generator-jhipster/issues/22718) is itll open. Will test with the development setup.
